ここ、いいですか？		is this spot available?
いい；よい		good
よくない		not good
そこ		there
あそこ		over there
悪い		bad; evil
天気		weather
いい天気ですね		nice weather, isn't it?
そうですね		it is, isn't it?
今日		today
寒い		cold (weather)
暑い		hot (weather)
今日は寒いですね		it's cold today, isn't it?
寒くない		it's not cold (weather)
今日もむし暑いですね		today is another humid day, isn't it?
初めて		the first time
日本は初めてですか？		is this your first time in Japan?
初めてじゃないです		it's not my first time
実は…		actually ...
二回目です		it's the second time
人		person
一人		one person; alone
お一人ですか？		are you on your own?
一人旅です		I'm travelling alone
旅行です		it's a holiday trip
友達		a friend
家族		a family
来る		to come
来ます		to come ('-masu' form); it will come
友達と来ました		I came with my friend
どちら？		where?; which? (respectful)
どちらからですか？		where did you come from? (respectful)
大阪から来ました		I travelled here from Osaka
出身		place of birth
ご出身は？		where are you originally from?
出身は横浜です		I'm originally from Yokohama
どんな？		what kind?
ところ		a place
大阪ってどんなところですか？		what's Osaka like?
おもしろい		funny; interesting
楽しい		fun
楽しいところですよ		it's a fun place
よかった！		I'm glad (to hear that)
にぎやかな		lively; so much going on
静かな		quiet
とても		very
とてもにぎやかなところです		it's a very lively place
ちなみに…		by the way ...
仕事		job
ちなみに、お仕事は？		by the way, what is your job?
学生		a student
先生		a teacher
医者		a doctor
役者です		I'm an actor; I'm an actress
やっぱり！		I knew it!
え、分かりますか？		what, can you tell?
おしゃれな		stylish; fashionable
きれいな		beautiful; clean
ハンサムな		handsome
おしゃれだから分かりました		I could tell because you were stylish
そうなんですか		is that so?!
おもしろそうですね		that sounds interesting
楽しそうですね		that sounds fun
じゃあ		in that case (casual)
よい旅を		enjoy your trip!
またね		see you! (casual)
